10 Articles Java Developers Should Read this Week - Javarevisited - Medium Sign in Open in app Get started Javarevisited Things to Learn Get Published Java Programming Resource Archive Blog Top highlight 10 Articles Java Developers Should Read this Week A curated list of articles for Java Programmers and Spring developers. javinpaul Follow Apr 18, 2019 · 6 min read Photo by Fatos Bytyqi on Unsplash Hello guys, curation is one of my passion and so is reading. I read a lot, here in Medium, On Reddit, On HackerNews and in general other places on the Internet. While reading so many articles I have noticed one thing that sometimes a good article doesn’t get the exposure it deserves and when I see that I feel for them. It takes a lot of hard work, time, and patience to write an article and there is nothing more frustrating to find that only a handful of your friends have read it. Java Community has given so much love to me and I am really grateful and I felt that I should also do something for new writers and bloggers and Java developers who write and that’s why I have created this Medium Publication, Javarevisited. If you follow me that you know that I solely write on my blog Javarevisited and Java67 but in this place, it’s not just me but other Java programmer and developer also gets a chance to write and share their thoughts. Apart from that, I have also started a series of curation articles, where I will share some worth reading Java articles from Medium so that you can read some interesting articles and those articles also get more exposure they deserve before falling on the sea. So, here is my first such curated list about best Java articles of this week from Medium: 1. 10 Deadly Mistakes to Avoid When Learning Java An excellent article by our new writer John Selawsky on our Medium Publication Javarevisited. You can do a lot better by avoiding these mistakes while learning Java. It’s worth remembering that : If you learn from your mistakes then you can learn only a few things in your life but if you learn from others mistakes, there is no limit to learn. Thanks, John Selawsky for being a part of Javarevisited community and keep these excellent pieces coming up. 10 Deadly Mistakes to Avoid When Learning Java To code or not to code? It seems that you’ve made your choice in favor of the first option. Programming is a great… medium.com Btw, if you are learning Java then I also suggest you go through The Complete Java MasterClass on Udemy, one of the best and most up-to-date course to learn Java. Complete Java Masterclass (Updated for Java 10) You've just stumbled upon the most complete, in-depth Java programming course online. With over 260,000 students… click.linksynergy.com 2. Helidon flies faster with GraalVM by Dmitry Kornilov Do you always wanted to learn more about GraalVM introduced in Java 10 but never get a chance to see some real stuff, here is an interesting article to start with: Helidon flies faster with GraalVM GraalVM is an open source, high-performance, polyglot virtual machine developed by Oracle Labs. GraalVM offers multiple… medium.com 3. A Study List for Java Developers by Jim A great study list for Java developers to learn more about Java, Clean Code, Gradle, Hadoop, Java EE, and Jetty. If you are feeling to explore what to learn in Java and how this article can help you. A Study List for Java Developers I became a Java developer about six years ago. Although I can’t say it’s every day, but I do enjoy my job a great deal… medium.com 4. Must-read books to learn Java programming He he :-) This is my own article, I am not sure if you have seen this on freeCodeCamp on yet or not. If you haven’t, please go and read. It contains some of the must-read books for Java programmers ranging from class Head First Java to Effective Java and Concurrency Practice in Java. If you are serious about improving your Java knowledge and want to become an expert Java developer every company wants, these are the books you should read: Must-read books to learn Java programming List of must-read Java programming books, which has helped me to become a better Java programmer. medium.freecodecamp.org 5. How (and why) to cook equals() and hashCode() in Java by Mykola Shumyn Equals and hashCode is one of the most important core Java concepts and I believe every Java developer should be familiar with this. It is used in HashMap, HashSet, TreeMap and several other Collection classes. There is also an equal and hashCode contract which you should follow while overriding these two methods in your own class. So far, Effective Java’s advise is the best one I have read on this topic but this article also has done well to cover this in-depth. Well done Mykola Shumyn and great job ITNEXT for publishing this article. How (and why) to cook equals() and hashCode() in Java Hi there! itnext.io 6. Evolution of Spring Boot and Microservices by Ajay Kumar S Another awesome article on Spring Boot and Microservice by our new community member Ajay Kumar S. If you are interested to know about how Spring Boot can help you to develop Microservice then you should read this article. Evolution of Spring Boot and Microservices If you were developing web applications 5 or 10 years ago, you would appreciate the advancements in the web apps and… medium.com 7. Optional in Java and anti-patterns using it by Mervyn McCreight Optional was introduced in Java 8 to reduce the risk of NullPointerException and improve the readability of code by showing the intention better but the bigger problem was that it wasn’t clear how to use Optional in the right way so most developers started using in the same way they do the NULL check, which means still similar code. If you are also on the same boat, do read this article to find out how NOT to use Optional in Java. Optional in Java and anti-patterns using it by Mervyn McCreight and Mehmet Emin Tok medium.com 8. Microservices with Spring Boot and Spring Cloud. From config server to OAuth2 server (without inMemory things) — Part 1 by Marcus Hert Da Corégio This is a two-part article which will teach you how to build a working app who will create users and authenticate/authorize users and clients in a microservices architecture using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, and MongoDB. Microservices with Spring Boot and Spring Cloud. Introduction itnext.io 9. Microservices with Spring Boot and Spring Cloud. From config server to OAuth2 server (without inMemory things) — Part 2 by Marcus Hert Da Corégio This is the second part of the above article which covers how to build the auth service Microservices with Spring Boot and Spring Cloud. Introduction itnext.io 10. Spring boot microservices with Eureka server by Kapila Nishantha Everyone is talking about Microservice nowadays and it’s today one of the most popular topics. Microservice can be written using Nodejs, Java, Python, etc. In this article, you will learn how to write java microservice using Spring boot and intercommunication between those microservice using Eureka service discovery server. Spring boot microservices with Eureka server Today one of most popular topic is microservice architecture. Microservice can be write using Nodejs, Java, Python… medium.com And if you want to learn more about Spring Boot and Spring Cloud, you can also check Master Microservices with Spring Boot and Spring Cloud course on Udemy. One of the better course on this topic. Master Microservices with Spring Boot and Spring Cloud Do you want to Learn to Build Amazing REST API with Spring Boot? Do you want to learn what the Hype about Microservices… click.linksynergy.com That’s all guys, these are some of the best articles I found on Medium this week for Java developers. If you like my curation, I may continue this kind of articles in the future. Once again thanks a lot to all the authors and publications and I invite you all to join Javareivsited and contribute here to reach many like-minded Java developers. If you have any questions or feedback, please drop a comment. Javarevisited An humble place to learn Java and Programming better. Follow 358 Java Programming Coding Spring Boot Software Development 358 claps Written by javinpaul Follow I am Java programmer, blogger, working on Java, J2EE, UNIX, FIX Protocol. I share Java tips on http://javarevisited.blogspot.com and http://java67.com Follow Javarevisited Follow An humble place to learn Java and Programming better. Follow See responses (4) More From Medium More from Javarevisited More from Javarevisited Implementing the Strategy Pattern With Spring introdev.io in Javarevisited Mar 29 · 3 min read 79 More from Javarevisited More from Javarevisited Java or PHP: Which is the Best Choice For Web Development in 2020? Sophia Martin in Javarevisited Mar 23 · 10 min read 67 More from Javarevisited More from Javarevisited How to Use Project Lombok with Spring Boot Yi?itcan Nalc? in Javarevisited Mar 4 · 7 min read 138 Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal